#summary How to configure the password server.

= Introduction =

By default the _lpws_ binary will read it's configuration from _/etc/lpws.conf_ but this can be overridden with the _--config_ option.

There are only two files needed to get _lpws_ to run. The first is the config file, the second is the private key that will be used by the server.

= Private Key =

The private key will be read from _/etc/lpws.key_. You may override this location by using the _private_key_ directive in the configuration file. This is a simple RSA private key and should be 1024 bits. To generate this key yourself run the following command as root.
{{{
openssl genrsa -out /etc/lpws.key 1024
}}}

Later versions of this software will provide a method for better self-configuration.

= Config File =

The available options used directly by the _lpws_ binary are:
 * *private_key* - This config option allows you to override the default location of the private key file.
 * *sasl_auxprop_plugin* - While not strictly used by _lpws_ this option should be set and always set to *lpws_ldap*.
 * *ldap_uri* - The URI used when connecting to the LDAP server.
 * *ldap_basedn* - The search base to use when looking up a user's record.
 * *ldap_binddn* - The DN to use when binding. This must be a DN that has access to read/write the userPassword and authAuthority attributes.
 * *ldap_bindpw* - The password to use when binding with the above DN.
 * *hostname* - Override the detected hostname of the system.
 * *ipaddress* - Override the resolved IP address of the hostname.

Any SASL option can be set by prefixing the requested option name with sasl{{{_}}}. The LDAP auxprop module used by _lpws_ for retrieving the user's unencrypted password has the following options (if these options are not found then they will be searched for by just the *ldap{{{_}}}* prefix, i.e. *ldap_uri*):
 * *sasl_lpws_ldap_uri* - The URI used when connecting to the LDAP server.
 * *sasl_lpws_ldap_basedn* - The search base to use when looking up a user's record.
 * *sasl_lpws_ldap_search* - The query to use when searching. A basic query would be *uid=%u*.
 * *sasl_lpws_ldap_binddn* - The DN to use when binding. This must be a DN that has access to read the userPassword attribute.
 * *sasl_lpws_ldap_bindpw* - The password to use when binding with the above DN.

An example config file might look like this.
{{{
private_key = /etc/lpws/private.key
sasl_auxprop_plugin = lpws_ldap
ldap_uri = ldap://127.0.0.1
ldap_basedn = dc=example,dc=com
ldap_binddn = uid=lpws,ou=users,dc=example,dc=com
ldap_bindpw = supersecret
sasl_lpws_ldap_search = uid=%u
}}}